In Amazon excuse me, we have two different types of cute, we have to stand a queue on the left and
then the FIFO queue or first in first out queue on the right hand side.
Now, one of the key facts that I want you to take away, especially from this slide, is that the stand.
Q does what's called best for ordering.
So that means that the order of the messages as they're placed on the Q could be different to the way
they're consumed from the Q So your producers might be putting messages on the Q in a sequence.
One, two, three, four, five, six and so on.
But the consumers on the right hand side might pick the messages up in a different order.
Now it is best efforts, so hopefully it won't be this bad, but it doesn't guarantee that your consumers
are going to get them in an order.
So you have to take that into account if your application relies on the fact that the messages are processed
in an order.
Now, the FIFO queue on the right here does what's called first in, first out delivery.
So that means in this case, the numbers are running backwards because no one was placed on the queue
first and then two, three, four, five, six, seven.
So that means they're going to be consumed in order.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
So that's one of the key differences.
Let's have a look at a bit more detail.
Stand accused of unlimited throughput, and that means they support a nearly unlimited number of transactions
per second for each API action, whereas FIFO queues do support high throughput, but only up to 300
messages per second for send, receive or delay.
And you can match messages per operation and then they can support up to 3000 messages.
A second stand accused offer what's called best effort ordering.
So that means that occasionally messages might be delivered in a different order.
Whereas you remember from the previous slide that the FIFO queue supports first in, first out delivery.
So in this case, the order is strictly preserved.
Stand accused of at least once delivery, so that means the message will be delivered at least once,
but it could be delivered more than once, so your application might end up processing it more than
once.
And you have to account for that in your application code.
Three focus support exactly once processing, and that means a message is delivered once and remains
available until it's processed by consumer and then deleted and duplicates cannot be introduced into
the queue.
There's a bit more information that you need to know for the exam about FIFO queues.
So firstly, we have the duplication with FIFO queues.
And for this you have to provide a message deduplication ID with the message.
The duplication interval was five minutes, and it supports content based duplication, the message,
the duplication, it is generated as a Charr 256 within the message body in terms of sequencing with
FIFO cues to ensure the strict ordering between messages, you can specify a message group.
It will see these both in the console shortly and messages with a different group.
They could be received out of order compared to the previous group day messages with the same group.
They are delivered to one consumer at a time.
FIFO cues required the message group idea and message deduplication idea parameters to be added to messages.
So let's look at these a bit more detail.
The message group, Heidi, is a tag that specifies that the message belongs to a specific message group.
So messages that belong to that group are guaranteed to be processed in a first in, first out method.
The duplication, it is a token that's used for duplicating messages.
Now, what we're going to do now is go over to the console and have a look at creating two different
types of kit.
I mean, the management console.
Let's go to services.
And if we come down to application integration, we'll find the simple Q service.
Now I'm going to get started and it's going to give me the options to create a new queue.
And you can see the two different types of cues of the standard and the FIFO here, and it gives you
a bit more information about them.
I'm going to call this my standard queue.
And I'm going to leave it on standard and we can click configure Q And in here you can see some attributes.
Now we're going to be going over these within this section in subsequent lessons.
So I'm not going to go over the details of them right now.
I'm just going to go down and click on Rikyu.
And that's our standard cue created.
Very simple.
Now let's create a FIFO queue as well.
So I'm going to choose FIFO and I'm going to call this my FIFO queue.
And you can see it's already warning me that I need to put the FIFO suffix on.
So your FIFO queue name must end in FIFO.
And let's just choose quick Rikyu, so we've got our two Qs now let's have a look at sending a message
to our stand.
Q So you can go queue actions, send a message and I'm just going to put a test message in here.
And click on send and Clothes, and so now we have a message available in the queue, and if we've got
a queue actions, view, delete messages, we can poll for messages.
So now it's going to actually poll and see what messages are available in the queue.
And so it's found our text message and we can then process it and delete it.
Let's have a look at the FIFA HQ now with the FIFA.
Q We have a couple of additional attributes.
So we've got the message group ID and the duplication it.
So let's just put a message in message one and then let's put this in group one.
And then for this, we're going to put in a kind of random value for the deduplication idea, and it's
to send a message.
And if we can't send another message, I'm just going to send the same message again now, if we close,
we should only see one message in the queue because it duplicated it.
Let's send another message.
And this time I'm going to put it in group two.
And again, I'm going to put a random value in here and click send message.
So now we've got two messages in the queue.
Let's pull the queue.
So now we get two different messages.
We can see that they have different group IDs and different deduplication IDs.
So the duplication idea must be unique within the group, but it could be the same across two different
groups.
We can easily now go in and just delete these messages.
So that's it for this lesson.
And in the next lesson, we're going to cover a dead letter cuz.